---
title: "A Bit About Me and Why I Start This Blog"
date: 2025-02-25
---

I think it's only proper for the first post in a personal blog to be some self-introduction. So, greetings! I'm Jeevan. As you may have already seen in the blog description, I'm from Indonesia and currently doing PhD in Tokyo. My background is in Civil Engineering, which I studied for both my undergraduate and master’s degrees. Now, I’m working in Mechanical Engineering, focusing on numerical simulations of granular materials in fluid.

The main reason I made this site is that I need a place to collect my thoughts and ideas. I believe (as most people would agree) that the best way to solidify newly formed ideas in our minds is to write them down. Doing this online also forces me to articulate them clearly for others to read. This is especially important, I think, for people in academia, to have this space to offload since our brains are often flooded by ideas.

Blogging isn’t as popular as it once was—most people now express their thoughts exclusively on social media. However, social media's limited space (whether in text-based posts or short videos), limits the depth of expression. As a result, we are encouraged to share ideas in short, frequent bursts rather than fully exploring them. That's why I decided to create this site—to share my thoughts in a more comprehensive way.

Additionally, as a non-native speaker of English, I want to improve my writing skills. Writing English posts regularly will help me refine my ability to express ideas clearly and effectively. Once my Japanese improves, I might start mixing in Japanese posts—though I’m still far from that point.

Jeevan
